README.md, before:

# Call germline Structural Variant Pipeline of Paired End and Split Reads

- [call-gSV](#pipeline-name)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [How To Run](#how-to-run)
  - [Flow Diagram](#flow-diagram)
  - [Pipeline Steps](#pipeline-steps)
    - [1. Calling Structural Variants](#1-stepproccess-1)
    - [2. Check Quality](#2-stepproccess-2)
  - [Inputs](#inputs)
  - [Outputs](#outputs)
  - [Testing and Validation](#testing-and-validation)
    - [Test Data Set](#test-data-set)
    - [Validation <version number\>](#validation-version-number)
    - [Validation Tool](#validation-tool)
  - [References](#references)

## Overview

The call-gSV nextflow pipeline, calls structural variants utilizing [Delly](https://github.com/dellytools/delly), suitable for detecting copy-number variable deletion and tandem duplication events as well as balanced rearrangements such as inversions or reciprocal translocations and validates the output quality with [BCFtools](https://github.com/samtools/bcftools).  The pipeline has been engineered to run in a 4 layer stack in a cloud-based scalable environment of CycleCloud, Slurm, Nextflow and Docker.  Additionally it has been validated with the SMC-HET dataset and reference GRCh38, where paired-end fastq's were created with BAM Surgeon.

The pipeline should be run **WITH A SINGLE SAMPLE AT A TIME.**  Otherwise resource allocation and Nextflow errors could cause the pipeline to fail.

<b><i>Developer's Notes:</i></b>

> TBD - We performed a benchmarking on our SLURM cluster.  Using XX CPUs for structural variant calling (`delly_number_of_cpus`) gives the best performance.

---

## How To Run

Pipelines should be run **WITH A SINGLE SAMPLE AT TIME**. Otherwise resource allocation and Nextflow errors could cause the pipeline to fail

1. Make sure the pipeline is already downloaded to yoru machine. You can either download the stable release or the dev version by cloning the repo.  

2. Create a config file for input, output, and parameters. An example can be found [here](pipeline/config/call-gSV.config). See [Inputs](#Inputs) for description of each variables in the config file.

3. Update the input csv. See [Inputs](#Inputs) for the columns needed. All columns must exist in order to run the pipeline. An example can be found [here](pipeline/inputs/call-gSV.inputs.csv). The example csv is a single-lane sample. All records must have the same value in the **sample** column.
 
4. See the submission script, [here](https://github.com/uclahs-cds/tool-submit-nf), to submit your pipeline

---

## Flow Diagram

A directed acyclic graph of your pipeline.

![call-gSV flow diagram](call-gSV-flowchart-diagram.drawio.svg?raw=true)

---

## Pipeline Steps

### 1. Calling Structural Variants

The first step of the pipeline utilizes an input BAM file and leverages [Delly](https://github.com/dellytools/delly) which combines short-range and long-range paired-end mapping and split-read analysis for the discovery of balanced and unbalanced structural variants at single-nucleotide breakbpoint resolution (deletions, tandem duplications, inversions and troslocations).  to call structural variants, annotate and merge calls into a single bcf file. A default exclude map of Delly can be incorporated as an input which removes the telomeric and centromeric regions of all human chromosomes since these regions cannot be accurately analyzed with short-read data.

### 2. Check BCF Quality

Leveraging BCFtools, the quality of the output can be viewed and evaluated in preparation for downstream cohort-wide re-calling and re-genotyping.
---

## Inputs

### Input CSV Fields

>The input csv must have all columns below and in the same order. An example of an input csv can be found [here](pipeline/inputs/call-gSV.inputs.csv)

| Field | Type | Description |
|:------|:-----|:------------|
| index -? | integer | The index of input fastq pairs, starting from 1 - confirm if needed |
| read_group_identifier | string | The read group each read blongs to. This is concatenated with the `lane` column (see below) and then passed to the `ID` field of the final BAM. No white space is allowed. For more detail see [here](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035890671-Read-groups). |
| sequencing_center | string | The sequencing center where the data were produced. This is passed to the `CN` field of the final BAM. No white space is allowed. For more detail see [here](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035890671-Read-groups) |
| library_identifier | string | The library identifier to be passed to the `LB` field of the final BAM. No white space is allowed. For more detail see [here](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035890671-Read-groups) |
| platform_technology | string | The platform or technology used to produce the reads. This is passed to the `PL` field of the final BAM. No white space is allowed. For more detail see [here](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035890671-Read-groups) |
| platform_unit | string | The platform unit to be passed to the `PU` field of the final BAM. No white space is allowed. For more detail see [here](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035890671-Read-groups) |
| sample | string | The sample name to be passed to the `SM` field of the final BAM. No white space is allowed. For more detail see [here](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035890671-Read-groups) |
| lane | string | The lane name or index. This is concatenated with the `read_group_identifier` column (see above) and then passed to the `ID` field of the final BAM. No white space is allowed. For more detail see [here](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035890671-Read-groups) |
| sorted_bam | path | Absolute path to the BAM file for the sample. |

### Config File Parameters

| Input Parameter | Required | Type | Description |
|:----------------|:---------|:-----|:------------|
| `sample_name` | yes | string | The sample name. This is ignored if the output files are directly saved to the Boutros Lab data storage registry, by setting `blcds_registered_dataset_output = true` |
| `input_csv` | yes | path | Absolute path to the input csv. See [here](pipeline/inputs/align-DNA.inputs.csv) for example and above for the detail of required fields. |
| `reference_bam` | yes | path | Absolute path to the reference genome `bam` file. The reference genome is used by Delly for structural variant calling. |
| `reference_bam_index_files` | yes | path | Absolute path to the genome bam index with a pattern matching. The index must be generated by the `bwa-mem2 index` command using the correct version of BWA-MEM2. |
| `reference_genome_version` | no | string | The genome build version. This is only used when the output files are directly saved to the Boutros Lab data storage registry, by setting `blcds_registered_dataset_output = true`. |
| `output_dir` | yes | path | Absolute path to the directory where the output files to be saved. This is ignored if the output files are directly saved to the Boutros Lab data storage registry, by setting `blcds_registered_dataset_output = true` |
| `temp_dir` | yes | path | Absolute path to the directory where the nextflow's intermediate files are saved. |
| `save_intermediate_files` | yes | boolean | Save intermediate files. If yes, not only the final BAM, but also the unmerged, unsorted, and duplicates unmarked BAM files will also be saved. |
| `cache_intermediate_pipeline_steps` | yes | boolean | Enable cahcing to resume pipeline and the end of the last successful process completion when a pipeline fails (if true the default submission script must be modified). |
| `max_number_of_parallel_jobs` | yes | int | The maximum number of jobs or steps of the pipeline that can be ran in parallel. |
| `bwa_mem_number_of_cpus` | no | int | Number of cores to use for BWA-MEM2. If not set, this will be calculated to ensure at least 2.5Gb memory per core. |
| `blcds_registered_dataset_input` | yes | boolean | Input FASTQs are from the Boutros Lab data registry. |
| `blcds_registered_dataset_output` | yes | boolean | Enable saving final files including BAM and BAM index, and logging files directory to the Boutros Lab Data registry. |
| `blcds_cluster_slurm` | no | boolean | Pipeline is to run on the Slurm cluster. Set to `false` if it is to run on the SGE cluster. This is used only when `blcds_registered_dataset_output = true` and `blcds_registered_dataset_input = false`. It is also ignored if `blcds_mount_dir` is set. |
| `blcds_disease_id` | no | string | The registered disease ID of this dataset from the Boutros Lab data registry. Ignored if `blcds_registered_data_input = true` or `blcds_registered_output = false` |
| `blcds_dataset_id` | no | string | The registered dataset ID of this dataset from the Boutros Lab data registry. Ignored if `blcds_registered_data_input = true` or `blcds_registered_output = false` |
| `blcds_patient_id` | no | string | The registered patient ID of this sample from the Boutros Lab data registry. Ignored if `blcds_registered_data_input = true` or `blcds_registered_output = false` |
| `blcds_sample_id` | no | string | The registered sample ID from the Boutros Lab data registry. Ignored if `blcds_registered_data_input = true` or `blcds_registered_output = false` |
| `blcds_mount_dir` | no | string | The directory that the storage is mounted to (e.g., /hot, /data). |

---

## Outputs

 Output | Required | Description |
| ------------ | ------------ | ------------------------ |
| `.bcf` | yes | Binary VCF output format with structural variants if found. |
| `.bcf index` | yes | BCF index file. |
| `.qc` | yes | results from quality control testing. |
| `report.html`, `timeline.html` and `trace.txt` | yes | A Nextflowreport, timeline and trace files. |
| `log.command.*` | yes | Process specific logging files created by nextflow. |

---

## Testing and Validation

### Test Data Set

A 2-3 sentence description of the test data set(s) used to validate and test this pipeline. If possible, include references and links for how to access and use the test dataset

### Validation <version number\>

 Input/Output | Description | Result  
 | ------------ | ------------------------ | ------------------------ |
| metric 1 | 1 - 2 sentence description of the metric | quantifiable result |
| metric 2 | 1 - 2 sentence description of the metric | quantifiable result |
| metric n | 1 - 2 sentence description of the metric | quantifiable result |

- [Reference/External Link/Path 1 to any files/plots or other validation results](<link>)
- [Reference/External Link/Path 2 to any files/plots or other validation results](<link>)
- [Reference/External Link/Path n to any files/plots or other validation results](<link>)

### Validation Tool

Included is a template for validating your input files. For more information on the tool check out: https://github.com/uclahs-cds/tool-validate-nf

---

## References

1. [Rausch T, Zichner T, Schlattl A, Stütz AM, Benes V, Korbel JO. DELLY: structural variant discovery by integrated paired-end and split-read analysis. Bioinformatics. 2012;28(18):i333-i339. doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/bts378](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3436805/)
2. [https://tobiasrausch.com/courses/vc/sv/#introduction](https://tobiasrausch.com/courses/vc/sv/#introduction)

Commit message:

updated README file with MINI testing file and outputs

README.md, after:

# Call germline Structural Variant Pipeline of Paired End and Split Reads

- [call-gSV](#pipeline-name)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [How To Run](#how-to-run)
  - [Flow Diagram](#flow-diagram)
  - [Pipeline Steps](#pipeline-steps)
    - [1. Calling Structural Variants](#1-stepproccess-1)
    - [2. Check Quality](#2-stepproccess-2)
  - [Inputs](#inputs)
  - [Outputs](#outputs)
  - [Testing and Validation](#testing-and-validation)
    - [Test Data Set](#test-data-set)
    - [Validation <version number\>](#validation-version-number)
    - [Validation Tool](#validation-tool)
  - [References](#references)

## Overview

The call-gSV nextflow pipeline, calls structural variants utilizing [Delly](https://github.com/dellytools/delly), suitable for detecting copy-number variable deletion and tandem duplication events as well as balanced rearrangements such as inversions or reciprocal translocations and validates the output quality with [BCFtools](https://github.com/samtools/bcftools).  The pipeline has been engineered to run in a 4 layer stack in a cloud-based scalable environment of CycleCloud, Slurm, Nextflow and Docker.  Additionally it has been validated with the SMC-HET dataset and reference GRCh38, where paired-end fastq's were created with BAM Surgeon.

The pipeline should be run **WITH A SINGLE SAMPLE AT A TIME.**  Otherwise resource allocation and Nextflow errors could cause the pipeline to fail.

<b><i>Developer's Notes:</i></b>

> TBD - We performed a benchmarking on our SLURM cluster.  Using XX CPUs for structural variant calling (`delly_number_of_cpus`) gives the best performance.

---

## How To Run

Pipelines should be run **WITH A SINGLE SAMPLE AT TIME**. Otherwise resource allocation and Nextflow errors could cause the pipeline to fail

1. Make sure the pipeline is already downloaded to yoru machine. You can either download the stable release or the dev version by cloning the repo.  

2. Create a config file for input, output, and parameters. An example can be found [here](pipeline/config/call-gSV.config). See [Inputs](#Inputs) for description of each variables in the config file.

3. Update the input csv. See [Inputs](#Inputs) for the columns needed. All columns must exist in order to run the pipeline. An example can be found [here](pipeline/inputs/call-gSV.inputs.csv). The example csv is a single-lane sample. All records must have the same value in the **sample** column.
 
4. See the submission script, [here](https://github.com/uclahs-cds/tool-submit-nf), to submit your pipeline

---

## Flow Diagram

A directed acyclic graph of your pipeline.

![call-gSV flow diagram](call-gSV-flowchart-diagram.drawio.svg?raw=true)

---

## Pipeline Steps

### 1. Calling Structural Variants

The first step of the pipeline utilizes an input BAM file and leverages [Delly](https://github.com/dellytools/delly) which combines short-range and long-range paired-end mapping and split-read analysis for the discovery of balanced and unbalanced structural variants at single-nucleotide breakbpoint resolution (deletions, tandem duplications, inversions and troslocations).  to call structural variants, annotate and merge calls into a single bcf file. A default exclude map of Delly can be incorporated as an input which removes the telomeric and centromeric regions of all human chromosomes since these regions cannot be accurately analyzed with short-read data.

### 2. Check BCF Quality

Leveraging BCFtools, the quality of the output can be viewed and evaluated in preparation for downstream cohort-wide re-calling and re-genotyping.

---

## Inputs

### Input CSV Fields

>The input csv must have all columns below and in the same order. An example of an input csv can be found [here](pipeline/inputs/call-gSV.inputs.csv)

| Field | Type | Description |
|:------|:-----|:------------|
| index -? | integer | The index of input fastq pairs, starting from 1 - confirm if needed |
| read_group_identifier | string | The read group each read blongs to. This is concatenated with the `lane` column (see below) and then passed to the `ID` field of the final BAM. No white space is allowed. For more detail see [here](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035890671-Read-groups). |
| sequencing_center | string | The sequencing center where the data were produced. This is passed to the `CN` field of the final BAM. No white space is allowed. For more detail see [here](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035890671-Read-groups) |
| library_identifier | string | The library identifier to be passed to the `LB` field of the final BAM. No white space is allowed. For more detail see [here](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035890671-Read-groups) |
| platform_technology | string | The platform or technology used to produce the reads. This is passed to the `PL` field of the final BAM. No white space is allowed. For more detail see [here](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035890671-Read-groups) |
| platform_unit | string | The platform unit to be passed to the `PU` field of the final BAM. No white space is allowed. For more detail see [here](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035890671-Read-groups) |
| sample | string | The sample name to be passed to the `SM` field of the final BAM. No white space is allowed. For more detail see [here](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035890671-Read-groups) |
| lane | string | The lane name or index. This is concatenated with the `read_group_identifier` column (see above) and then passed to the `ID` field of the final BAM. No white space is allowed. For more detail see [here](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035890671-Read-groups) |
| sorted_bam | path | Absolute path to the BAM file for the sample. |

### Config File Parameters

| Input Parameter | Required | Type | Description |
|:----------------|:---------|:-----|:------------|
| `sample_name` | yes | string | The sample name. This is ignored if the output files are directly saved to the Boutros Lab data storage registry, by setting `blcds_registered_dataset_output = true` |
| `input_csv` | yes | path | Absolute path to the input csv. See [here](pipeline/inputs/align-DNA.inputs.csv) for example and above for the detail of required fields. |
| `reference_bam` | yes | path | Absolute path to the reference genome `bam` file. The reference genome is used by Delly for structural variant calling. |
| `reference_bam_index_files` | yes | path | Absolute path to the genome bam index with a pattern matching. The index must be generated by the `bwa-mem2 index` command using the correct version of BWA-MEM2. |
| `reference_genome_version` | no | string | The genome build version. This is only used when the output files are directly saved to the Boutros Lab data storage registry, by setting `blcds_registered_dataset_output = true`. |
| `output_dir` | yes | path | Absolute path to the directory where the output files to be saved. This is ignored if the output files are directly saved to the Boutros Lab data storage registry, by setting `blcds_registered_dataset_output = true` |
| `temp_dir` | yes | path | Absolute path to the directory where the nextflow's intermediate files are saved. |
| `save_intermediate_files` | yes | boolean | Save intermediate files. If yes, not only the final BAM, but also the unmerged, unsorted, and duplicates unmarked BAM files will also be saved. |
| `cache_intermediate_pipeline_steps` | yes | boolean | Enable cahcing to resume pipeline and the end of the last successful process completion when a pipeline fails (if true the default submission script must be modified). |
| `max_number_of_parallel_jobs` | yes | int | The maximum number of jobs or steps of the pipeline that can be ran in parallel. |
| `bwa_mem_number_of_cpus` | no | int | Number of cores to use for BWA-MEM2. If not set, this will be calculated to ensure at least 2.5Gb memory per core. |
| `blcds_registered_dataset_input` | yes | boolean | Input FASTQs are from the Boutros Lab data registry. |
| `blcds_registered_dataset_output` | yes | boolean | Enable saving final files including BAM and BAM index, and logging files directory to the Boutros Lab Data registry. |
| `blcds_cluster_slurm` | no | boolean | Pipeline is to run on the Slurm cluster. Set to `false` if it is to run on the SGE cluster. This is used only when `blcds_registered_dataset_output = true` and `blcds_registered_dataset_input = false`. It is also ignored if `blcds_mount_dir` is set. |
| `blcds_disease_id` | no | string | The registered disease ID of this dataset from the Boutros Lab data registry. Ignored if `blcds_registered_data_input = true` or `blcds_registered_output = false` |
| `blcds_dataset_id` | no | string | The registered dataset ID of this dataset from the Boutros Lab data registry. Ignored if `blcds_registered_data_input = true` or `blcds_registered_output = false` |
| `blcds_patient_id` | no | string | The registered patient ID of this sample from the Boutros Lab data registry. Ignored if `blcds_registered_data_input = true` or `blcds_registered_output = false` |
| `blcds_sample_id` | no | string | The registered sample ID from the Boutros Lab data registry. Ignored if `blcds_registered_data_input = true` or `blcds_registered_output = false` |
| `blcds_mount_dir` | no | string | The directory that the storage is mounted to (e.g., /hot, /data). |

---

## Outputs

 Output | Required | Description |
| ------------ | ------------ | ------------------------ |
| `.bcf` | yes | Binary VCF output format with structural variants if found. |
| `.bcf.csi` | yes | CSI-format index for BAM files. |
| `.vcf` | yes | structural variant calls in vcf format. |
| `.qc` | yes | TBD - results from quality control testing. |
| `report.html`, `timeline.html` and `trace.txt` | yes | A Nextflowreport, timeline and trace files. |
| `log.command.*` | yes | Process specific logging files created by nextflow. |

---

## Testing and Validation

### Test Data Set

Current tests are leveraging aligned and sorted bams generated with GRCh38 and BWA-MEM2-2.1 testing outputs TEST0000000_TWGSAMIN000001-T002-S02-F.bam.

### Validation <version number\>

 Input/Output | Description | Result  
 | ------------ | ------------------------ | ------------------------ |
| metric 1 | 1 - 2 sentence description of the metric | quantifiable result |
| metric 2 | 1 - 2 sentence description of the metric | quantifiable result |
| metric n | 1 - 2 sentence description of the metric | quantifiable result |

- [Reference/External Link/Path 1 to any files/plots or other validation results](<link>)
- [Reference/External Link/Path 2 to any files/plots or other validation results](<link>)
- [Reference/External Link/Path n to any files/plots or other validation results](<link>)

### Validation Tool

Included is a template for validating your input files. For more information on the tool check out: https://github.com/uclahs-cds/tool-validate-nf

---

## References

1. [Rausch T, Zichner T, Schlattl A, Stütz AM, Benes V, Korbel JO. DELLY: structural variant discovery by integrated paired-end and split-read analysis. Bioinformatics. 2012;28(18):i333-i339. doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/bts378](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3436805/)
2. [https://tobiasrausch.com/courses/vc/sv/#introduction](https://tobiasrausch.com/courses/vc/sv/#introduction)
